From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hansel minutes, but
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologists. Scott Hanselman hosted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number 36 recorded
Monday, October nine, 2006. Support
for Hanselman. This is provided
by coach Smith tools, makers
of coach Smith, an extensible
template based code generator for.net
Hanselman its listeners. Get $100
off coats with professional with
coupon code age M 100
online@covidsmithtools.com. Support is also provided
by Dartmouth developers journal the
world's leading.net developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode, Scott
interviews, PowerShell architect, Jeffrey Snow. Hey,
this is Scott Hanselman and
this is Hansel minutes. We're
doing other unconventional Hansel minutes
this week. I'm up on
campus at Redmond. I drove
up here for the PowerShell
ISV developers conference, and I
am lucky enough to be
sitting in the office of
Jeffrey's Nover the PowerShell architect.
That is correct, correct. There's
not more than one PowerShell
architect. No, there isn't. That's
funny story though. Digital, I
ran into somebody who introduced
themselves as the deck net
architect. I thought, Oh my
God, the definite architect, the
architect. And then a few
weeks later I met another
guy and he introduced himself
as the deck net architect.
And then I discovered that
there were 30 or so
the deck that architects. And
so it turns out that
in general architects have a
problem with their, that their
definitive articles. That sounds like
a bank's everyone's a VP.
You know, if you've ever
met someone at a bank
virtually, you know, in the
it department, like everyone is
a vice president at all
levels, so that's cool. But
in this case I am
the architect. So I've done
podcasts on PowerShell before I
did it. When it was
one, one is called monad.
I had the opportunity to
meet you at tech ed.
And we got to do
some talks together since then,
of course it's PowerShell. And
you just came out with
PowerShell, RC, everyone's loving PowerShell.
I'm spreading the word. I
love PowerShell, but let's get
a little insight into, what's
kind of going on behind
the scenes. How many people
make PowerShell happen? It's not
just, you know, we've got
a great team, you know,
I'm always poorest with numbers
and, but, you know, ballpark
tech. So you did what
the overall thing. I came
up with the idea. So
it flew out of WMI
C WMI. At the time
we were looking for, you
know, a great value proposition
for WMI. You know, when
you write a perfect counter,
you write perfect counter United,
see a nice graph, right.
But with WMI, see, you
did a whole bunch of
work and you didn't see
anything for it. So, so
we want to solve that
mic and it was great,
powerful. And at the time
bill had been beating me
up about Donna. You were
personally being beaten up by
bill Gates. Yeah. That's cool
that you have that kind
of spoken like someone who
has been beat up by
bill. I would love to
be beat up. I go
at least once. So I
could say that there you
go talk to him about
diagnostics. So he was beating
you up saying it's not
manageable enough. Oh, just saying
that, You know, w that
our division we needed to
get on.net, you know, that
was the future. Get with
the program. And so at
the time I said, okay,
you know, I'll go find
out what he's talking about
here. Investigated it, thought, Oh,
you know what? As a,
as a kind of science
project, I'll take WIC and
I'll rewrite it in.net. And
I was doing that. And
I was thinking also thinking,
well, you know, I also
want to, right now, WIC
is.is a, you know, coupled
to WMI, I could take
some of the same concepts
and apply them to XML.
And so I was going
to write an XML shell.
And so then as I
got into it, I saw,
Oh, dot net has reflection.
Reflection gives me about 75,
80% of what I get
out of WMI. The ability
to walk up to random
objects. Who are you, what
properties do you have? What
methods do you are? Give
me these properties, invoke these
methods. So then I realized
I could do the same
thing I was doing with
WYC against dotnet objects. And
Bill's out there, obviously beaten
me up to get on
the board at the top
bed. He's going to beat
everybody else up. And so
I could apply these principles
to the mainstream of technology
and get awesome power. So
that's what happened. So I
took that and then found
a group who had some
funding to do a next
generation shell. They were kind
of off thinking about doing
it in K shell, or
So there was another group.
So you're in during the
management and its rotation group.
Yep. You're screwing around. It
sounds like you're just kind
of doing some prototyping around.
Yep. How long did, did
you, had you learned.net before?
Nope. No. You sat down.
Oh, welcome to.net. Yep. And
how long between that sit
down, welcome to.net and really
getting that reflection could do
what you needed to do.
It was a couple of
weeks or you got it
right away. Yeah. It was
a week and a half,
two weeks Immediately said, Oh
yeah. Now I can do
something. Yeah, Exactly. Once I
saw it, you know, when,
when you say goals Yeah.
You just knew it immediately.
Yeah. So then there's another
group that was not your
group was using the next
generation show. Well, no, they
weren't after next generation shell,
they were just after a
better shell. Right. So they
were going to try and
port K shell or, or
something just somehow get us
a better shell, anything but
dos. And so I went
and I talked to them.
I said, Hey, listen, here's
what we could do. And
honest to God, they look
like at a rat's tail
hanging out of my mouth,
like, what are you talking
about? And so they're kind
of intrigued. So they kept
coming back and talk to
them and talk to them.
And they just kind of
like, you're strange. And so
I said, you know what,
come to me in a
month. And so then I
sat down, I just cranked
out like 15,000 lines of
code prototype in it. And
I said, now let me
show ya. And then, then
they like, Oh my God,
you know, what can I
do this? And I show
them, I can do that.
And they're like, well, what
about this? And then they
were totally bought in. And
so then we fired up
a team to anxious. We
ended up having to, I
left that group and then
they left that group and
we went to a third
group to get the funding
and make it part of
the mainstream. Oh, us. So
you had, you basically had
this idea kind of spontaneously.
It's the two of you
guys from pressure from bill.
And how do you just
get a group? Hey, if
you find some boss who
has the power to do
that, right? You can't just
make a group yourself. No,
that's correct. And so they
had some funding. And so
we started to use that.
And then I worked, I
transferred to the windows server
group, too. They had the
biggest need for this. And
then over time we eventually
moved. It consolidated all underneath
windows server. So basically we
had a superstar executive, Dave
Thomas Thompson, excuse me, who understood
the need for this stuff
and was a fantastic sponsor.
We've had, we've had very
good luck with executive sponsors.
Bob Muglia has been very
helpful in this. Do those
guys get it? I mean
sometimes, Well, increasingly Microsoft, the
execs really getting, you know,
I've worked a lot of
places. And the great thing
about Microsoft is the execs
are truly technical and they
get, I tell you what,
you know, you do lots
of technical reviews, you know,
your peer in this blah,
blah, blah. And you people
drill into the, to the
details of your specs and
your architecture, honest to God,
the best ever Jim algin
Jim algin. Oh my Lord.
He gives the he's the
white hair guy looks like,
who's the guy who did
the pictures of Andy Warhol.
Okay. A little about that.
But yeah, I saw him
actually working onstage doing, he
was doing the coding. He
like played the coding monkey
for somebody he's like, yeah.
I mean, that's pretty useful
Credibly perceptive, you know? So
we go in with a
lot of people, you know,
they, they, they hear the
story and they're like, huh.
And it takes them like
weeks before they finally get
it. Jim, we talked to
him about it and I'm
like, in a few minutes
he got to the three
core issues and he nailed
them the three most insightful
questions. And I knew that
because I've been dealing with
them, struggling with them
yeah. And all the executive
that way. Steve's that way.
Bob's that way that has
combined both, you know, strong
technical skills. I mean, you
gotta have your technical act
together when you've talked to
these guys. Right. Because they're
going to sniff it out
and they got business skills,
strategy skills. They're wow. Yeah.
That's true. How close is
what you showed them to
what you ended up with
that gonna See it's very
close. I think the things
I think are the biggest
differences are originally, we had
relied heavily on command and
lets as being the universal
surface for everything. And when
it became obvious that that
wasn't going to happen in
version one, we shifted and
supported more native data types,
right? Legacy, data types, script,
you know, XML, sorry, text.
So IP config, IP config,
wasn't converted in version one.
So I needed to be
able to take IP config,
which outputs text parse that
text and manipulate it. Right.
So we got great text,
parsing, regular expression support, same
thing with calm, a bunch
of stuff today is scripted
through VB script and comps.
So we supported that then
support for, you know, XML
ADSI WMI, that was all
there. So that was one
thing. And the second thing
is that the language is
just, you know, far, far,
far, far, far richer than
I had ever dreamed for
Your language guy, Bruce, Bruce
superstar, Bruce and superstar, Jim
Jim's a PM and Bruce
is the dev lead and
often there's as well. Who's
responsible. What is the difference
between that? And you know,
in some place in sunrise
code one doesn't yes, that's
true. But Jim writes a
lot of code. Just, we
don't want to check it
in, but in general, these
two just work together as
a great team to, you
know, define what the language
should do. Right. Jim's got
a lot of deep Unix
backgrounds. We knew a bunch
of the things that the
Unix guys would want. And
then Bruce is a walking
encyclopedia of languages. I mean,
you know, we'd come up
with some things we wanted
to do and he'd say,
Oh, you know, some obscure
language, you know, snowball used
to try and do that.
And here's what the worked
well. And here's what didn't
work. Well, these other guys
do it this way. I
think we'd be better suited
to take their approach. It's
like, Oh my Lord. So,
and, and you know, Jim,
sorry, Bruce is the guy
who one day walked in
and said, I think we've
got a support script blocks.
It's like what? And he
explained it and it's like,
Oh my Lord. And it
was just transformational experience. I
mean, just got an order
of magnitude, more powerful in
Grip blocks took me a
second. But once you get
the idea of the different,
you know, the scope, how,
how much of a boundary
that is that the script
block boundary is. And then
that there are actual objects
themselves that things can take
script blocks as input. You
know, self-modifying kind of stuff
you can pass behavior in
script blocks as delegates. Yup.
Ben mine start getting blown.
That's pretty advanced stuff, but
I've been reading some of
these different superstar bloggers of
the PowerShell bloggers and the
stuff they're doing with description,
you know, script blocks as
delegates. There was one post
you guys posted on where
you did some kind of
a, there's a limitation right
now in script blocks, just
delegates isn't there. They have
to have a certain signature
signature, but then you guys
came up with a workaround
by dynamically generating the assembly
that contains the appropriate signature.
I mean, that was pretty
hardcore. That was about the
most hardcore thing I'd seen.
It was all done in
script. Well, the nice thing
about it is that's what
I love the most about
PowerShell is the incredible dynamic
range. You know? So if
you're a beginner out there
and you're hearing this, you're
saying, Whoa, run away. Right.
We got too deep, too
fast. Sorry. Yeah, don't run
away. You'll see that. It's
very easy to get in
just type commands and, and
deal with it at an
operator level. When you want
to start doing scripting, you
can kind of do it
at like a bash style,
which is to say, and
by the way, this is
an explicit design decision to
have an incredibly wide dynamic
range. So you can go
right with very quick ad
hoc functions. You don't need
to name your parameters or
type them. Then you can
get more formal name type
initialize, apply constraints, your variables,
that sort of thing, use
different types of scoping, more
sophisticated stuff, all the way
to systems programming. And the
reason for this is, you
know, take a look at
my bookshelf, right? What you
see is lots and lots
of different types of books
and tools, techniques, right? So
it's K shell, I guess
at home, I've got some
on regular expressions and all
these utilities. And what happens
is that in the Unix
world, you know, you have
this like tool kit of,
of, of tools and that's
great. You know, the toolkit
model is a great model,
but its downside is that,
you know, you have one,
one tool doesn't really have
a particularly large dynamic range.
And so you end up
having to switch and switch
and switch. And each one
of the tools kind of
do the same things in
different ways. So where's the
synergy. We wouldn't have one
tool. Yes, you learn it.
And then you can have
incredible dynamic range. Beginners can
do beginner stuff and then
grow over time to become
experts. Experts can do expert
stuff, but if they just
got a quick ad hoc
problem, boom, just type it
and they're done. No, no
in Unix, they've got their
kind of basic text passing
pipeline. We use a PS
and it would pass, get
all the processes pipe through
said walk and you're moving
string from place to place.
And it seems like every
two letter combination is some
tool. Right. You know, let's
go XQ and that's something
that's in a bin folder
somewhere, you know? So every
two or three letter character
combination is some widget and
their, their show experience is
the string passing combined with
all of these kind of
little things. I don't know
what they're called. Little applets
utilities, little utilities, the other
good news set of utilities.
Right. So how did you,
how did you keep from
putting in the whole kitchen
sink? You've got a lot
of these commandlets right. Which
are not executable. There's no
get underscore content dot exe
floating out there somewhere. It's
a different model, right? Yeah.
And so what happens is
that it looks like a
command line, right? That maps
to a traditional executable. In
fact, what it does is
it drives a common parser,
right? There's a grammar. These
commandlets are. In fact dotnet
classes, they present a grammar
to the runtime engine that
then parses, we find the
correct.net object. We invoke it.
It spits out these other.net
objects. And then you can
manipulate those. And because we
never rendered a text until
you need texts, that allows
us to be really efficient
about the processing of things
and the utilities. Right. We
can white, you know, kind
of CQL type utilities against
live in memory objects because
you don't render to text
until you need to. So
you can just get way
more powerful by basically deferred,
deferred rendering. So I can
write my own commandlet by
making a class and decorating
it with some attributes. Yep.
Why would I write a
commandlet in C sharp or
Phoebe done that versus writing
a script? Yeah. So, you
know, we want to get
to the point where it's
completely the same, you know,
it's a lifestyle choice, but
right now you can only
do about C know, it
depends on how you view
it. But about 75% of
the things you can do
with a command line that
you can do with a
script. So in particular, you
can only have one parameter
set. So parameters set is
this like get processed. You
can start stop process. You
can say stop process, minus
ID, blah, or stop process
minus name black. Those are
two parameter sets with a,
with a script. You can
only do one. You can
also in a command let,
what you can do is
you can put attributes on
your parameters for validation and
then PowerShell will do the
validation for you. And at
some point I always loved
this one, you know, systems
programmers learned this and they
look at these attributes and
they're like, you know what?
That, that attribute saves me
like three lines of code.
You know, I'll just write
the script. Well, I'll just
write the code. This isn't
if you're a C sharp
programmer and we tell them,
no, no, no. Don't write
your three lines of code.
Use the attribute because if
you use the attribute, well,
if you, if you write
the code, one of those
lines of code is going
to be an error message,
right? Cause you said that
validation attributes are like, it's
gotta be one of these
four values or it's gotta
be greater than five or
less than 15 or support
this regular expression. So if
you write the code to
do that, you know, when
it doesn't work, you're going
to output an error message,
which means you don't want
to, when you have the
bell curve of programmers doing
this same technique, you know,
the user's going to get
a thousand different error messages
for exactly the same condition.
Whereas if you use our
attribute there, get exactly one
and then we'll translate it
into all the languages. Right?
And so you don't have
to do that. So only
wait right now, you can't
do that with a script,
right? You can't say this
parameter has these attributes that
do validation. So those things
will be common, but parameter
sets today and attributes validation.
Yeah. Some of the common
parameters. So with a command
led because it's subclass off
of base class, our base
class has a set of
kind of core parameters, which
then the engine recognizes. So
like air action, if you,
and when you read your
chameleon, parameter, ubiquitous parameters, one
of my favorite words, that's
a great, yeah, that's it.
Well, I explain it like,
Oh, well these are ubiquitous.
You see? Oh really? Oh
yeah, everyone has them. Huh?
They're everywhere. You'll find them
everywhere. You read the ubiquitous
Adam. Oh, one of my
favorite, the early, you know,
kid grown up learning get
totally turned on about science,
the ubiquitous Adam. And I've
been turned onto the, no,
I don't know. Some of
this is one of the,
not real scientists. I don't
know. I don't remember who.
Yeah. So, and you don't
get those with a, with
a script, but we're going
to get it. We're going
to make them full peers
in the future. Is there,
Is there a pattern or
is there prescriptive guidance on
taking existing libraries and deciding
how to kind of shoehorn
them into being appropriate? Commandlets
cause I know there's a
lot of constraints around what
a command that ought to
look like without ought behave.
Like a lot of decisions
need to be made about
how it takes input, what
kinds of things it takes
as input. And it's not
necessarily, and because it's a
member of a pipeline because,
because in an, a pipe
B pipe C situation, you
might be writing B I
think more thought in the
design has to go into
it in my opinion then
as if you were writing
just some data access layer,
some Dow. Yep. Exactly. And
in fact, so here I
actually take the question and
the question is, so if
I have this library, how
do I expose to this
commands? And I'd say, that's
exactly the wrong thing to
do. Yeah. You got it
wrong. No. And particularly, I
mean, that's the whole point
of it is what you
want to do is to
start with the user. And
you think about that poor
guy sitting there trying to
get his job done and
say, what does that guy
need? Right. What functions does
he need when he's sitting
there? Right. And then think
in terms of a set
of tasks, right? What tasks
is he going to perform?
What's he going to want
to type, what's he going
to want to get process
and pipe and other things
and then build that right?
And then take whatever you
have, whatever random surface you,
you might've generated and expose
it to them. Right? Because
the things you surface to
a developer are different in
both type and granularity, then
the things you're going to
surface to the admin or
maybe. And so the key
is to think through what
is the admin want and
surface that, you know, it
was interesting. We had always
thought that the idea would
be that people would write
their command lads right there.net
libraries, and then command it
to be a really thin
layer on top of those.
But we were shocked actually
defined that groups like exchange.
What they're doing is they're,
they're actually doing that, but
they're keeping their done at
libraries, private internal, and they're
only surfacing their.net, their command
lights. And the reason for
that is the commandments then
define their well-defined, you know,
interface to all their functions.
It is the remoting surface.
It's the surface that can
be logged, et cetera. So
you are using exchange and
exists as kind of the
conical example for those that
might want to go and
write these kinds of things.
If I go on exchange
and the new exchange, 2007,
I say, get user as
Hanselman pipe, move mailbox, I'm
piping the user through the
move mailbox and then move
mailbox knows who I'm talking
about because there's this implied,
this entirely applied, it's pretty
explicit, actually a user's being
piped through that user object.
That's kind of the, the,
the, the now, and that's
the domain object. This is
a, you just said that
the user experience is important,
but it seems like there's,
it's a little service oriented
architecture just on a command
line as they're moving data
from service to service with
very explicit boundaries, that user
object that they're piping through
is that unique to the
PowerShell implementation in the sense
of they've designed this noun
called user or mailbox, and
it's only used in the
context of commandlets or might
it be used in some
larger dowel or document object
model that they've designed? Yeah,
no, it can be used
in larger document in larger
context. So the way these
things work is this is
a great discussion about, is
a versus has a couple
of, okay. And is a
coupling model says, Oh, I'm
a command. And I take
a system dot diagnostic step
process. Right. And you got
to be one of those
things and I'll take it
well, that then limits you
to the event, allows you
to then integrate with anything
that produces one of those
things, right. Cardinality X. But
if instead you said, well,
no, you know, I can
take that or I can
take anything which has one
of those things, or which
has a process ID name.
Cause if you give me
the process ID name, I
know how to take the
PR or the process ID.
I know how to take
the process ID and create
one of those things. So
that's a hazard model. And
all of a sudden you
can integrate with a ton
of things, right? CSV files
that has a, a field
that has an ID or
an SES, sorry, CSV or
XML or WMI, whatever, as
long as it has an
attribute named ID that you
can then take use as
a lookup to the real
object and then operate on,
you can integrate with a
ton more things. And so
PowerShell supports both models. And
it's actually one of the
rules for these parameter sets.
If you take a look
at stop process and drill
into it, one parameter set
says, Hey, you can pipeline
the process object to me.
The other one says, Hey,
you can pipeline the process
IDs to me. And so
that's how you get this,
like mind boggling integration, possibilities.
You were, you know, kind
of almost anything can talk
to anything cause underneath the
covers. I don't know if
you've figured this out yet,
but underneath the covers, it
looks like a traditional your,
your, your dad's command line,
but it's not at all.
What we're doing is we're
taking that thing and we're
turning it into an execution
plan against a generalized object
flow engine, right? So you
heard a data flows. Well,
this is an object flow
engine. You give the object
to one part of the
control. You run the control.
And until it admits another
object that then controls the
sequencing of the next element
of the program. So Who,
if I'm passing into stop
process, using that example, I
could go and say, get
process, outlook, pipe, stop process,
and it'll get the process
of your candidate to it.
Or I could say stop
process dash, you know, pit
equals. And then the near
pit, The number who handles
the ghetto Of the process,
you know, you're saying that
you could pass the actual
process or something with a
little less fidelity, but a
unique enough thing that I
could do. Yeah. And then
the commanders, the resolution, the
command does that command actually,
there's two answers to that
because it would be nice
if someone would get that
for me. Sure, sure. There's
actually two answers to that.
First is yeah. So one
is what we do literally
is we take a look
at the object in the
pipeline and we say, does
it, is there something that
accepts it by type? And
we say, try and bind
it. And if it works,
we go then if not,
we say, is there something
that binds it by name?
And we take a look
at the name, Oh, it
takes ID. And we'll look
at the current object and
we see, does it have
an ID? And then we
say, yes, it does. So,
okay. Then I'm going to
bind it. And we do
is we take it and
we see what is the
type. So this thing takes
it, it takes it an
integer. But if this has
a string, we'll do the
coercion to that. Right. Oh.
So the naming is more
important than the type. The
name Gaming is more important
when the, in the hazard
model. So the point there
is, if you had said,
well, basically then we have
a number of ways to
do this big data coercion
stuff. Right. So, you know,
we use the.net conversion libraries,
so you could type converters,
I've converted stuff, right? So
you could say, Hey, I'm
going to bind to things
whose type is process ID.
And we'll take them. We
see, well, I have this
integer and I don't have
a process ID if you've
registered a converter from integers
to process IDs, that will
just work. That's exactly, Exactly
what my next question was
going to be. You nailed
it. So Mike, in my
command that I would write,
I was just thinking like,
well, I'm going to have
my do it method. And
my do, it's going to
want processes, am I do,
it's not going to want
to worry about how to
get from foods to processes
or IDs or strings or
whatever. I just want to
process handle it. Yep. You're
saying I can go and
register type converters using this
type converter stuff that I
already know how to do
that because it's built into.net
and I'll take as many
types as you can throw
at me and you'll say,
Oh, is there a type
converter registered convert it? And
in that conversion, I could
do a lookup database or
WMI call or whatever. Exactly
correct. Right. And so you
could say, well, you know,
I produce type foods. You
can go and write food
to process converter food to
this converter food to that
converter. And, and, and then
people will be able to
take your stuff and pipeline
into, to a wide set
of thing. That wouldn't be,
it would be okay in
that instance too, to go
somewhere, to answer that question.
I mean, cause converting something
isn't necessarily always coercion it,
maybe look up. Yup. Oh
yeah. That's true. However you
implement your converters. Fine. That's
hot. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's
a, that's the whole goal.
That's the idea of this
object flow engine, right. A
lot of pain in the
ass programming stuff is this
impedance mismatch stuff. Right. This
guy I'll put something and
I got to get it
exactly right to this guy.
And the answer is, boy,
that's a big pain in
the butt. Right. So, you
know, it's kind of like
programming surgical knives. Right. But
we want to be able
to like program with artillery.
Right. You know, just kind
of over there is where
I want it to get
and you take care of
it. So talk to me
about this PS custom object
piss object thing. That, that
if, if, if I have
a, if I have a
Fu object and, and, and
the, the listeners are, you
know, dot net programmers, should
they think about things in
terms of CLR types? Right.
So I've got a food
CLR type. I can pipe
it into something and maybe
on the way there can't
really think of a good
example, but I lost that
CLR type. But you can
still process a food, even
though you've never seen one,
even though maybe the assembly's
gone. Yeah. How does that
work? Why would that be
useful? Yeah. So what we
do is we wrap all
the.net objects in an adapter
object. We call P S
object. Okay. And then the
PS object then adapt different
types. So here's basic issue
is that various technology teams
have taken and implemented their
own type system within.net. Right.
So WMI WMI has implemented
their own type system within.net.
What's that mean? There's, I
don't know what half a
dozen WMI classes, but they
actually represent, you know, tens
of thousands of WMI types.
Right? So, you know, WMI
object, well in WMI object,
it has a property WMI
type and that can take
anyone at 10,000 fields. Well,
and then, and then you
say, well, what are you
properties? And they all say,
well, why have two properties,
system properties, object properties? And
it's like, well, how's that
helpful? And the answer is,
there's good reasons for it.
Blah, blah, blah. Let them
explain to you why those
are good reasons. But two,
you trying to just program,
it's a pain in the
butt. So we adapt it.
And so in our world,
when you say, Oh, I
have this WMI object, I
say, well, whatever it's properties
will reach into those property
bags and show you them.
So basically what we're trying
to, and we do the
same thing with XML, ado,
Everything has this facade. Yes.
Everything has this facade. And
then for most things like.net
objects, it's a very thin
facade. Just quick go adapt
it. We provide the facade
there so that you can
add extensions to the dotnet
object. So for instance, processes,
you know, dot net is
a very regular surface, but
not really regular. And as,
as up to the standards
of a management technology, right?
So specifically WMI got it,
right. Everything's called name. Everything's
got a name property. Whereas
in.net, you know, some things
have named process has process
name, service has service name.
Well, why is that helpful?
And what we'd allow you
to do is to have
these type extensions. So you
can say process, I've got
a new property, it's called
name it maps to process.
Name service got a new
property. It's called names Included
some of those by default.
Absolutely. So you've actually modified
the base class library by
spot welding on additional stuff
where you didn't like what
they did. Exactly. Yeah. So
this is make it more
regular, More regular, right? This
is this whole theme of
like the democratization, the types.
But you know, you got
a job to do. And
these guys, their role is
to help you do their
job and the degree to
which they do it. Great.
And to which the degree
to the greets, which they
don't do it, then get
the hell out of the
way and let some people
in there who can help
you get your job done.
That's what our type systems
about, right? If they've met
your needs fine, we're very
thin layer access directly. But
if they haven't met your
needs, we've extended and wrapped
it in such a way
that we, you, third parties
can go and make it
meet your needs. Wow. That's
hot. There you go. The
last question I want to
ask you is about the
hosting stuff. You know, if
you type get hosts, get
hyphen hosts, you see that
even, even the UI is,
is, is a facade. I
mean, everything is abstracted away.
Everything can be swapped out
and already we've seen things
like Karl processors, PowerShell analyzer,
like SQL analyzer for PowerShell,
you know, it's a complete,
he doesn't want to call
it an ID, but it's,
it's, it's an environment for
developing PowerShell, but it's a
complete host it's hosting power
show. What other kind of
instances do you think people
are going to using? I've
seen those couple. What other
reasons might, I want to
go and write a host
for power show. Yeah. So
basically anytime you want to,
well, just computing engine, right?
So, or, Or run space.
Oh, okay. Because you've been
saying that we want to
do NMC, right. So I'll
go on. I'll write my
whole, like a curling. We
do banking. So I'll write
a whole financial institution management
system entirely in PowerShell. And
now it's time to do
it in NMC. Yep. How
do I call those those
command? Let's how do I
reuse my pipelines? Am I
just building command lines and
calling run spaces? And how,
how is hosting a run
space different than becoming a
host? Gotcha. Okay. So when
do you know in this
regard, I don't know if
you ever used tickle, but
I was very inspired by
tickle and wanted to emulate
the great characteristics of tickle.
The great characteristic of tickle
was they had a tickle
shell and interactive shell, but
it could also be loaded
into your lot into, as
a library, into your application
and then load it into
your library. During the initialization,
you could go and say,
Hey, here, I want to
add my, my extensions. So
then all of a sudden,
in that instance of the,
the engine, you could run
scripts, which performed actions against
your applications, objects. I think
macro enable your application just
by including their library. Exactly.
So that was the inspiration
for this. And so what
we did was we went
a little bit farther and
we said, instead of it
being a library, we chose
the ATO model, right? The
conceptual model of ha and
we called them run spaces.
And the idea was, I'd
like to connect to a
run space and that's going
to be a script execution
space. And I'd like it
to be here or there,
or there I'd like to
have five of them or
10 of them, whatever in
the future, you'll see that
you'll be able to say,
I'd like to be fully
Dio type. Molly say I'd
like to have a run
space on that machine with
these credentials and that machine
and those credentials set up
these parameters and then send
some scripts there. Some SERPs
there, give the output, merge
them, et cetera. Then the,
the issue is now when
I run these scripts, at
some point they might require
information from the user read
host or right host. So
if Nora did that to
work, we have this virtualized
host interface, which basically has
a set of interfaces that
you support read host, right?
Host, things like that. And
then you get to implement
them however you want. So
exchange went, wrote an MMC
snap in there, a DLL
right into MMC. They load
our DLL, which then creates
a number of run spaces.
They Y a number. Oh
I'm. So when you do
a, a w when you
send it a command on
a run space, it blocks,
it's basically the ver you
know, the kind of early
ado model where you can
run one at a time.
Okay. It's exactly the same,
maintain my own run space
pool. That's what they did.
Okay. Yep. And so they
have, and so if you
do something that's gonna take
awhile, you can run it
on that one, and then
you have something else, you
run it on another one,
get the results and use
them. Then they've got a
host Interface for things like,
you know, when you do
write progress, they actually bring
up, you know, when 32
dialogue box with the progress
indicator, we're, we're here at
the, at the PowerShell developers
conference. And there's going to
be some talks later this
afternoon on how to integrate
with MMC. What kind of
help or applicant helper libraries
do you have that are
PowerShell specific and NMC specific
to make, or, or best
practices to make this easier?
Or do we just go
and make a snap in
and start calling run spaces?
What are the, what are
the best practices? No, that's
is essentially it Jamaica run
space and started invoking it.
You know, we have lots
of content on how to
do that today. Do we
have to write the host
ourselves to handle things like
write progress and the different
progress bar interactions? Sadly. Yes,
you do. Okay. Yeah. Over
time, you'll see more and
more of that integrated directly
into the system. But for
now, that's what, at some
point in the future, then
maybe writing at PowerShell, NMC
snap in would be, you
know, file new power MC
PowerShell, MMC snapping thing. And
I get some of that
available to us. Oh, watch
that space. Here's the other
way to do this. They
learned this trick when I
used to work for titillate
think about it this way.
What would a smart person
do? Fantastic. That's what we're
going to do. That's exactly
what I like to hear.
And that's a good place
to end. Thank you very
much for being on handsome
minutes. I really appreciate your
time. Thank you.